---
title: "The Booth Lab - A Quick Guide"
permalink: /guide/
author_profile: true
---

*This page is a work in progress and is under revision.*

TIPS?
------

Clear expectations are essential.  Here are a couple things that I expect from my graduate students:

* **Project Journal:** It is important to keep a record all the things you do on a research project - especially things you tried that didn't work out (your future self will thank you for this).  While git is an awesome tool, it is not effective for this purpose.  I recommend using a Google slides or Google doc file for each research project in which you keep a running journal of the things you've worked on.  Include things like bullet point lists of "to-do" items, in-progress versions of figures, links to relevant papers, etc.  Label slides/sections with dates.  Overtime, your journal should tell the story of how your research project progressed.  Do not delete things, just keep adding to the story.
	+ Your git repository and your project journal will work together.  To demonstrate, here is a quick example of their uses.  Consider a simulation study that you ran with `n = 25` training data points.  You store the results in csv files, and push both the simulation code and the results to the git repo.  You then make a plot of the results and realize that you need to bump up the training data size.  In your code, you change `n = 25` to `n = 50`, re-run the scripts, and overwrite the previous csv files of the results.  The new figures look much better, and you push all of these changes to the git repo.  From git's perspective, the original results with `n = 25` are stored in version control, but they are hidden from view.  You won't see them unless you go searching for them in previous commits.  But if you took a break and returned to this code months down the line, you might not even remember that the original results were there in the first place.  Now in your project journal, you copy/paste a version of the original plots and the updated plots.  You label them with the appropriate sample sizes and the date and include some notes as to why you increased `n`.  Months down the line, the project journal tells a clear story which you can easily trace back to the original git commit.  [One other perspective may be to keep both versions of the results in the repo with different file names.  I do not recommend this approach unless you plan to keep/show results for both sample sizes.  Keeping around a bunch of old files leads to cluttered repositories.  It also does not record why you made the change in the first place.]

* **Communication:** You are expected to communicate promptly.  This means responding to emails/messages within one business day (ideally sooner).  In your response, it is ok to say that you will follow-up at a later time (something like "thanks for reaching out, I will get back to you on this next week" is far superior than a delayed or lack of response, just don't forget to follow up).  It is good practice to implement this policy for *all* emails, not just the ones about our research.  Do not let emails get lost in the fray; keep your inbox clean and organized.

* **Initiative:** While we will work together as a team, you are still ultimately responsible for your own learning and progress.  Sometimes you will need to take initiative to search for answers and think creatively on your own.  If you get "stuck" on something, do not sit passively waiting for your next meeting with me.  Take some sort of action.  Maybe set aside the thing you are currently working on to read some additional papers.  Or watch some recorded presentations from other people working in this area.  Or reach out to me outside of our regular meeting time to ask for guidance.  Whatever you do, take initiative so you can make the most of your time here.
